
# Kate Swett's Page

Welcome to my page showcasing my digital humanities projects!
Please scroll down for links :)

## My Final Reflection

Throughout the semester long Intro to Digital Humanities course, I have learned a plethora of valuable skills and information. Initially entering the class, I had assumed digital humanities referred to exploring societal and historical events through digital means. Now, while I’ve barely scratched the surface, I understand the complex relationship between digital and analog representations of data and how data can be changed through multiple processes. Through our class readings and field trips, I learned about human implications on data and became aware of some incredible resources such as the Kislak Center and Education Commons. 

The Printing in Prisons project was a personal favorite as it opened my eyes to the nuanced discussion behind inmates and their character. I chose to humanize an editor of the Eastern Echo who had previously murdered a young girl. Using only physical data from the Eastern Echo magazine, historical newspapers, and a memorial page, I was able to gather enough information to paint a picture of Robert Heinemann’s character in the Eastern State Penitentiary. This project helped me resonate with Giorgia Lupi’s “Finding Humanity in Data” talk as she drew connections between human bias and data creation. Even in my Philadelphia workshop, I found this to be relevant as every little decision I made in shaping my pottery bowl influenced how the final product was portrayed. Her discussion about data being imperfect and crafted by human bias led to me reflecting about how I had interpreted data about Robert Heinemann in my project. While I tried to draw conclusions solely from the contents of the magazine and historical sources, my attempts to humanize Robert through his work with the magazine and band likely contained my own biases. Lupi also mentioned data can be used to tell stories and draw a narrative. This clearly intersected with my project as I was trying to create a story humanizing Heinemann while not diminishing the weight of his crimes. I intentionally highlighted Heinemann’s articles discussing prison reform and his thoughts on the current prison system. I found this to be an interesting topic as it’s valuable to hear an inmate’s own perspective on the system they live in. It was a little bit of a struggle to balance understanding his call for shorter sentences and more rehabilitation based institutions while being aware of the murder he committed. I personally felt that his opinions on prison reform were well articulated and aligned with my own beliefs but couldn’t clearly work out if Heinemann himself should’ve served a shorter sentence given his crime. I chose to best present this dynamic by including a section solely discussing his reform argument and paralleling it to current rehabilitative prison systems in Denmark and how crime rates have significantly gone down there. I then included a later section discussing the weight of his crimes and how his rash decision to shoot Edith caused incredible heartbreak and grief for her community. I still wanted to point out his humanity within the penitentiary with his thoughtful contributions to the magazine and how his peers highly respected him. I do believe people are capable of change and given the limited data on his life, I wanted to present this challenging duality in a respectful way.

This project also taught me a lot about the technical side of digital humanities. Working with github and historical resources, I found the process of data processing to be quite interesting. I started to understand the sheer meaning and subsequent data that can come out of existing data during the class where we each catalogued portions of articles into the google sheet based on headings, tags, and more. While the raw data of the articles already existed, we further created metadata about the data by separating each page by categories. This also gave rise to exploring the topic of data accessibility. Reflecting back to the Kislak Center trip, I learned about the process of digitizing historical books and how the faculty go about deciding the best way to represent physical data. There were certain books that relied on real physicality to be fully appreciated such as anatomy books that had fold out flaps to a book that was meant to be touched as each page was made of a different type of paper. It’s hard to find ways to represent this digitally as many physical attributions are compromised when viewing through a screen. However, digitization of physical data allows greater outreach and gives millions of people access to resources that they previously may not have been able to. This discussion related directly to my workshop at Penn where I made fold out Christmas cards. As I took a photo of my 3D Christmas tree card to submit, I realized the design was heavily compromised by viewing it just through a screen. Small but important details such as how the glitter paper caught the light to how the tree changed shape depending on the angle you viewed it from were lost in the digital version. 

The Education Commons project was very valuable because I was able to work with physical materials and create a product with my teammates that reflected an important portion of The Umpire. Our group chose to create a word map consisting of relationships between major and minor topics in The Umpire’s data that reflected activities and community within the penitentiary. After my teammates ran the data through a program and created the initial design, I worked with Christine (our EC connect) to print the design onto fabric paper and hand stitch the connections between the topics. This intersected with Katie Rawson and Trevor Muñoz’s, “Against Cleaning” where they highlighted the relationship between non scalable and scalable process in data interpretation. They emphasized that scalable processes with data risked losing important details that contribute to the overall impact and integrity of the data. I agreed with the point that non-scalable processes leave data in its most raw and full form because as mentioned before, processes such as digitalization can compromise important physical aspects of data. However, I felt that in our EC project, scalability was a large portion of the product but it didn’t necessarily take away from the impact of the data. Through our process of ‘cleaning’ the data by choosing certain terms and phrases to include in our word map, we definitely lost a lot of context that is important to fully understanding The Umpire. However, the purpose of our project was to introduce data from The Umpire in a nuanced way to point out specific relationships between how community played a large part within the penitentiary and how different activities intersected. Our scaling of the data created new data that brought focus to a specific portion of The Umpire. I view them as separate entities that work off each other and can together paint a larger picture. 

I have taken a lot of concepts from this class that make my view of data and its implications more well rounded. The combination of the workshops and projects opened my eyes to several discussions between physical and digital data that I wasn’t previously aware of. I’m very proud of the work I’ve done in this class but if I went back I would like to attend more office hours and discuss topics I found especially interesting. I definitely found the class to be very interesting and would happily take another class or workshop highlighting the importance of digital humanities.


This is a link to my [Printing in Prisons Project](ESPproject.md)

This is a link to my [EC Project](ecproject.md)

This is a link to [Looking Forward](lookingforward.md)
